So when reading today's text,
maybe two questions came to your mind.
The one is, what are these body members on the earth?
And the other one is, how do we deaden our body members?
Our text reminds us of the words of Jesus,
where he said, it is better to cut off your hand,
your foot, to throw your eye away,
rather than being destroyed.
In Bible language, the hand, the foot, the eye,
often is used to illustrate what we do with our life.
The hand represents things we do or make with our hands.
The foot represents walking or running,
often connecting it with where we go in life.
The eye represents a viewpoint or opinion,
how we look at things, whether we like them or not.
So what do the body members mean?
They do not refer to literal parts of our body,
like the hand, the foot or the eye.
It illustrates tendencies as imperfect people.
In our text for today in Colossians 3 verse 5,
Paul lists some of these tendencies.
He said, they are immorality and cleanness,
uncontrolled passion, hurtful desire.
Some translation say evil desires and greediness.
The bad inclinations we have within us, we have from birth.
Greed and bad desires come quite easily to most of us.
If you put the ball on the table
that is not perfectly level,
the ball will roll down to the lower end.
All humans are born with that inclination to go down.
So how do we deaden or stop our inclination
towards evil desires and greed?
Simply remove them from our life.
But that is not so easy to do,
because that inclination is very strong.
So how can we stop our inclinations from starting to rolling?
What we discuss five things that we can do
to keep that ball of wicked inclinations in place.
Number one, control our mind.
Jehovah gave us this wonderful tool,
powerful tool, our mind.
And we can keep our inclinations under control.
But how do we do that?
You're in Colossians chapter three, in verse two,
it says, keep your minds fixed on the things above.
So when the mind wants to go with it,
it should not immediately bring it under control.
Stop it from going where it is bad.
We have a choice what we think about.
Don't allow that ball of wicked reasoning to start rolling.
Don't even think about it.
More time spent on thinking about something
means that it is much more likely that we will do it.
So the second one, control our emotions.
How do we do that?
Well, don't let our emotions control us.
See our imperfect inclinations, what they really are.
They're imperfect and they are selfish,
like naughty little children.
When we don't get our way,
our emotions can become like a screaming child.
It wants something, it wants it now.
It does not understand reason.
And the good mother refuses to give in to the child.
Now, if we're not careful,
our emotions will take over screaming, blue murder,
demanding that we get it now.
Let's read your first Corinthians six, verse 12.
And we'll read the second part of verse 12.
All things are lawful for me,
but I will not let myself be controlled by anything.
Number three, to control our inclinations,
to keep that ball from rolling,
recognize the danger of greed.
The last part of our text today in Colossians three, verse five,
says, and greediness, which is a dollar tree.
When we for prey to greed,
our desires become our master, our God.
And we surrender our will,
and we actually become idolaters, self-worshipers.
Now that does not mean that all desires are bad.
Jehovah opens his hand and satisfies the desire
of every living thing.
The difference between normal desire and greed
might be likened to the difference between
the small campfire that cooks food
and the blazing inferno that consumes a forest.
Number four, to control our inclinations,
do not be naive.
Let us read your Proverbs 14, 15 and 16.
Proverbs chapter 14, 15 and 16.
The naive person believes every word,
but the shrewd one ponders each step.
The wise one is cautious and turns away from evil,
but the stupid one is reckless and overconfident.
Do not for a moment think,
well, this is not going to happen to me.
Don't be fooled by your own desires.
Greed can never be satisfied.
It never says enough.
A brother who was addicted said this
about every time that he gave in.
He said, I was drawn by a force so powerful
that I did not turn back until it was too late.
Once that ball starts rolling, very little can stop it.
Number five, to stop that inclination,
be honest with yourself.
Let us read your Romans 7, 22 and 23.
Romans 7, 22 and 23.
It says, I really delight in the law of God,
according to the man I am within,
but I see in my body another law warring
against the law of my mind,
and leading me captive to sin's law
that is in my body.
So it speaks there about a war.
This is war.
Paul was in this war.
We are in this war,
and they will be painful injuries.
A soldier, for example,
may damage a limb badly during battle,
and it has to be amputated.
At some point, he has to accept the fact
that he is going to lose a limb
and agree for it to be cut off.
Now, we're not talking about literally cutting off members,
but at some point, we need to face the facts.
We must agree in our heart
that we will give up a habit or a custom
that we feel is as precious as a hand or a foot and an eye.
This is not a game.
Life depends on this.
Two things, admit that we have a problem,
and number two, do whatever it takes
to root it out of our life.
So in summary, yes, obey the command,
dead in your body members.
The battleground is our own heart.
If we discover an inclination that is bad,
stop it immediately, cut it off, throw it away.
No harm will come to us.
When we do this, we really begin to live.
It is exactly as Osama says,
and Psalm 63, your loyal love is better than life.